Charge-discharge cycle thermodynamics for
compression hydrogen storage system
Jinsheng Xiao a,b,*
, Pierre Benard b
, Richard Chahine b
a Hubei Key Laboratory of Advanced Technology for Automotive Components, Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center
for Automotive Components Technology, School of Automobile Engineering, Wuhan University of Technology,
Hubei 430070, China
b Hydrogen Research Institute, Universite du Quebec a Trois-Rivi  eres, QC G9A 5H7, Canada
article info
Article history:
Received 4 September 2015
Received in revised form
19 December 2015
Accepted 20 December 2015
Available online 3 March 2016
Keywords:
Hydrogen storage
Compression
Charge
Discharge
Thermodynamics
Analytical solution
abstract
Knowledge of the evolution of the thermodynamic properties of hydrogen storage systems,
such as temperature and pressure, is required in order to evaluate and optimize their
performance. The thermodynamic models of hydrogen storage systems are based on the
mass and energy balance equations. They can be expressed, for high level analysis, as
lumped parameter or zero-dimensional models, which are represented as a set of ordinary
differential equations. We present a simple thermodynamic model that can predict the
charging and discharging of gaseous hydrogen, which allows, in specific situations, for
analytical solutions of the temperature and the pressure as a function of time, and can be
used to validate more detailed numerical models. From the analytical solution, the final
hydrogen temperature of refueling can be expressed as a weighted average of initial, inflow
and ambient temperatures. The weighted factors are related to other refueling parameters,
such as initial mass, initial pressure, refueling time, refueling mass rate, average pressure
ramp rate (APRR), final mass, final pressure, etc. This work may be extended to adsorptionbased or metal hydride hydrogen storage system. The analytical solutions can be used for
sensitivity studies of hydrogen fueling standard.
Copyright © 2016, Hydrogen Energy Publications, LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights
reserved.
